# Fall Week 5 (October 24 - October 30)

**Goals:**
- [x] Attend research group meeting
- [x] Identify the research problem and initial proposed approach
  - [x] Part I (Reflection)
  - [x] Part II (Identifying general research problems and technical challenges)
  - [x] Part III (Refining research problem and getting a start at a solution)
- [x] Search for literature

**Week 5 Summary (5 hours):**
- Thursday: Identified general research problems and technical challenges (0.5 hours)
- Saturday: Reflected on ERSP (0.5 hours)
- Monday: Refined research problem and got a start at a solution; Searched for relevant literature (1 hour)
- Tuesday: Searched for literature (1 hour)
- Wednesday: Attended research group meeting (2 hours)

**Wednesday, October 30 (2 hours):**
- Attended research group meeting
  - We shared the progress we were making regarding our teaching topics.
  - William pointed us toward lecture notes discussing SMT and the visitor pattern.
  - We discussed the logistics of writing our research proposals.
  - Meeting notes can be found here.

**Tuesday, October 29 (1 hour):**
- Searched for literature
  - I looked for sources in the references of the ZELKOVA paper and other sources provided courtesy of William.
  - I loosely clustered the sources I found.
  - Literature search notes can be found here.

**Monday, October 28 (1 hour):**
- Refined research problem and got a start at a solution
  - The preliminary group work for our proposal can be found here.
- Searched for relevant literature
  - I identified some sources that related to “Semantic-based Automated Reasoning for AWS Access Policies using SMT” and our project.
  - Literature search notes can be found here.

**Saturday, October 26 (0.5 hours):**
- Reflected on ERSP
  - Due to a modification of the assignment, I completed this portion of the assignment after Part II (as seen below).
  - What do you like most about the work you are doing? Before joining ERSP, I was under the impression that computer science research did not have much of a practical importance. However, my research project in security for the cloud has tremendous implications for the real world. Our project deals with not only technical problems as detailed in Part II but also higher-level social problems like the privacy and security of our cloud infrastructures and our data. This seems like a great balance between abstract/theoretical work and programming/practical applications.
  - What do you like the least? I am not the biggest fan of reading research papers. I understand that it is an inevitable step of the research process, but sometimes, I feel like it is busywork, especially when I have assignments for other classes.
  - What is the biggest concern or question you have? I am wondering whether we will be able to implement our project in code by the end of the year. Prof. Bultan mentioned that we may continue working on the project next year, which leads me to believe that there are a lot of features to implement that we may not get to by the end of ERSP.

**Thursday, October 24 (0.5 hours):**
- Identified general research problems and technical challenges
  - The high-level problem we identified based on our current research is the insecurity of resources on cloud infrastructures due to vulnerabilities or misconfigurations in access control policies. On a more technical level, the problems we are attempting to address pertain to the difficulty in quantifying the permissiveness of access control policies and in automatically verifying that access control policies really do what they are intended to do. For the scope of our ERSP project, we are not focusing on the verification aspect using SMT solvers; our responsibility lies in generating SMT formulae from access control policies (in our case, AWS IAM policies represented in JSON) and quantifying how efficiently these formulae can be solved. In addition, based on our last meeting with William, we may want to count the number of SAT models generated by the solver to quantify the permissiveness of a policy or a family of policies. 
