# Winter Week 6 (February 10 - February 16)

**Goals:**
- [x] Attend weekly meeting with Aarti
- [x] Attend biweekly meeting with Prof. Mirza
- [x] Attend weekly meeting with William and/or Prof. Bultan
- [x] Attend weekly group meeting
- [x] Work on the translator
- [x] Incorporate domain information into SMT formula


**Week 6 Summary (7 hours):**
- Tuesday: Attended weekly meeting with Aarti, attended biweekly meeting with Prof. Mirza attended weekly meeting with William and/or Prof. Bultan (3 hours)
- Thursday: Attended weekly group meeting, worked on the translator, incorporated domain information into SMT formula

**Thursday, February 13 (4 hours):**
- Attended weekly group meeting
- Worked on the translator
  - We implemented a better regular expression translator that first checked several conditions and then called the recursive function if the expression was too complicated. This helps prevent too many variables being declared and too many assertions being thrown around
  - The number of declarations/assertions for recursive approach is O(height of tree)
- Incorporated domain information into SMT formula
  - I designed a very rudimentary translator that constructed assertions from a ‘domain.json’ file encoding an AWS domain. I then plugged these assertions into the SMT formula generated by our policy translator

**Tuesday, February 11 (3 hours):**
- Attended weekly meeting with Aarti
  - Slides can be found here.
- Attended biweekly meeting with Prof. Mirza
  - We checked in on our progress and shared a high-level outline of duties in context of our revised timeline
- Attended weekly meeting with William and/or Prof. Bultan
  - We more thoroughly discussed incorporating domains into our formula
  - Generally, we call these “policy-agnostic” items
  - We discussed the exact use cases of differential analysis and model counting
  - We talked about using Z3, CVC4, and ABC and what command-line arguments would be most appropriate
